NIST Identify
=============

It is important to identify your assets as a defender. In fact, attackers are
constantly performing this activity against their targets (like your
organization) through reconnaissance. In order to best secure your environment,
you must know what is in it. Furthermore, you must look at it like the adversary
does, to best understand and limit your exposure.

NIST identifies a number of categories under the function of “Identify”. Each of
these categories contains subcategories of activities. It is important to be
familiar with those categories before moving forward. Below are the six
categories aligned to the “Identify” function.

### Asset Management (ID.AM)

The data, personnel, devices, systems, and facilities that enable the
organization to achieve business purposes are identified and managed consistent
with their relative importance to business objectives and the organization’s
risk strategy.

### Business Environment (ID.BE)

The organization’s mission, objectives, stakeholders, and activities are
understood and prioritized; this information is used to inform cybersecurity
roles, responsibilities, and risk management decisions.

### Governance (ID.GV)

The policies, procedures, and processes to manage and monitor the organization’s
regulatory, legal, risk, environmental, and operational requirements are
understood and inform the management of cybersecurity risk.

### Risk Assessment (ID.RA)

The organization understands the cybersecurity risk to organizational operations
(including mission, functions, image, or reputation), organizational assets, and
individuals.

### Risk Management Strategy (ID.RM)

The organization’s priorities, constraints, risk tolerances, and assumptions are
established and used to support operational risk decisions**.**

### Supply Chain Risk Management (ID.SC)

The organization’s priorities, constraints, risk tolerances, and assumptions are
established and used to support risk decisions associated with managing supply
chain risk. The organization has established and implemented the processes to
identify, assess and manage supply chain risks.

Jump to Module:
---------------

Module [1- An Attacker's Perspective](./module1/index.md); From the Outside

Module [2- Inside the Castle](./module2/index.md)

Module 3- Managing the Moving Pieces
