WHOIS Primer
============

This WHOIS Primer summarizes the key components of the WHOIS service, policy,
and protocols. It takes into account the
many [contracts](http://www.icann.org/en/resources/registrars/whois-policies-provisions),
specifications, standards,
protocols, [advisories](https://whois.icann.org/en/registrar-advisories),
and [policies](https://whois.icann.org/en/implementation) that collectively
describe the ICANN WHOIS program applicable to the collection, display, and use
of gTLD domain name registration data.

This Primer is based on the obligations described in the 2013 Registrar
Accreditation Agreement ([2013
RAA](https://whois.icann.org/en/link/june-2013-registrar-accreditation-agreement)),
and the base new gTLD Registry Agreement ([New GTLD Registry
Agreement](http://newgtlds.icann.org/en/applicants/agb/agreement-approved-20nov13-en.pdf) [PDF,
649 KB]), and in a few instances other registry agreements, as noted below. As
not all registrars and registries are operating under the 2013 RAA or the New
gTLD Base Agreement, their actual obligations pertaining to WHOIS may vary.
Please refer to the language of the original documents for the text of the
obligations related to WHOIS.

2. Uses of WHOIS
----------------

Internet operators use WHOIS to identify individuals or entities responsible for
the operation of a network resource on the Internet. Over time, WHOIS has
evolved to serve the need of many different stakeholders, such as domain name
registrants, law enforcement agents, intellectual property and trademark owners,
businesses and individuals.

Stakeholders use the WHOIS service for a variety of purposes, including to:

-   Determine whether a domain is available

-   Contact network administrators regarding technical matters

-   Diagnose registration difficulties

-   Contact web administrators for resolution of technical matters associated
    with a domain name

-   Obtain the real world identity, business location and contact information of
    an online merchant or business, or generally, any organization that has an
    online presence

-   Associate a company, organization, or individual with a domain name, and to
    identify the party that is operating a web or other publicly accessible
    service using a domain name, for commercial or other purposes

-   Contact a domain name registrant for the purpose of discussing and
    negotiating a secondary market transaction related to a registered domain
    name

-   Notify a domain name registrant of the registrant's obligation to maintain
    accurate registration information

-   Contact a domain name registrant on matters related to the protection and
    enforcement of intellectual property rights

-   Establish or look into an identity in cyberspace, and as part of an incident
    response following an Internet or computer attack- (Security professionals
    and law enforcement agents use WHOIS to identify points of contact for a
    domain name)

-   Gather investigative leads (i.e., to identify parties from whom additional
    information might be obtained)- Law enforcement agents use WHOIS to find
    email addresses and attempt to identify the location of an alleged
    perpetrator of a crime involving fraud

-   Investigate spam- law enforcement agents look to the WHOIS database to
    collect information on the website advertised in the spam

Under the ICANN contracts, WHOIS can be used for any [legal
purpose](http://www.icann.org/en/resources/registrars/raa/approved-with-specs-27jun13-en.htm#3.3.5) except
to enable mass unsolicited, commercial advertising or solicitations, or to
enable high volume, automated, electronic processes that send queries or data to
a registry or registrar's systems, except as necessary to manage domain names.

Performing WHOIS Lookups
------------------------

ICANN organization has committed to making WHOIS look-ups as easy as possible.
To perform a search, users only need to go
to [http://whois.icann.org](https://whois.icann.org/), enter a domain name, and
click "Lookup."
