Policies, Standards and Guidelines
==================================

The responsibilities that a SAISO/CISO is charged with, as well as most of the
other roles that fit into the category of “Govern and Oversee” include policy,
strategy, training and managing risk. While all of these are important
functions, we will look at policy first, as it will guide the other areas. One
thing to remember is that policy, standards, procedures and guidelines should be
derived from requirements that are set forth in regulation, law or best
practices. Once you understand the purpose and characteristics of policy,
standards, procedures and guidelines, you can create or assess them based on
applicable regulations, laws, or best practices (discussed later.)

Information about policies, standards and guidelines can be found in the
Introduction to Information Security, NIST Special Publication 800-12. Accessed
at: <https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-12r1>.

### Policies

Information security policy is defined as an aggregate of directives,
regulations, rules, and practices that prescribes how an organization manages,
protects, and distributes information. (NIST SP 800-12)

An organization may have a number of policies in place to address important
aspects of operations. Generally, policies are mandatory and should support the
goals of the organization. Policies should be enforceable and should require
accountability.

*Policy may be issue specific* (also called functional implementation policy).
Examples of this may be a password policy, acceptable use policy, and remote
access policy.

*System specific policies may also be used*. These types of policies are geared
towards network and system resource usage. Examples could include how and where
to deploy intrusion detection systems or what types of software are approved for
use on organizational computers.

Another way to categorize policies is by their purpose. The following are three
major categories that policies may fall under:

-   **Regulation supporting:** These policies ensures that an organization is
    following applicable standards set by specific industry regulations. This
    type of policy would be specific to an organization based on the standards
    they must comply with.

-   **Advisory:** These policies strongly recommend activities that should
    and/or should not take place and provides possible consequences of operating
    outside of the advised parameters.

-   **Informational:** These policies are in-place to advise users of certain
    issues/facts. It is not meant to be a policy that is enforceable, but rather
    something to supply information.

Policies are best measured against a maturity model to identify how well they
are integrated into the business processes of the organization. NIST provides
the Program Review for Information Security Assistance (PRISMA), consisting of
five levels of maturity for organizations to measure their posture against
policy, procedures, implementation, test, and integration. For more information,
see NIST Interagency Report 7358. Accessed at:
https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/Legacy/IR/nistir7358.pdf

### Standards

Policies are very broad; it can difficult to enforce or validate compliance if
the policies are implemented differently across large organizations. For this
reason, standards are often used to provide requirements across an organization
about what constitutes policy

compliance. These are often compulsory, but they truly make policy enforcement
more achievable.

NIST provides an example of using a standard to enforce a policy for badging.
Controlling access is a critical security function; standardization of
identification badges makes implementation and verification much easier.

### Procedures and Guidelines

Procedures describe the “how” aspect of implementation. Procedures are detailed
in nature and should provide a systematic description that can be followed by
users, system administrator, or other personnel that must comply with policy
requirements.

An example of this may include a procedure documented and used by Active
Directory administrators that covers how to create new user accounts. The
details could include details like a default password (to be changed at the
user’s first login), assigning the user account to the appropriate groups based
on their department or how to process the required documentation to authorize a
new account creation.

Guidelines are used to help with ensuring compliance against policy despite
variance from system to system. These would be appropriate in situations where a
standard cannot be instituted from some reason. Guidelines can provide multiple
ways to properly implement necessary security measure and are a great too to
ensure that measures are not overlooked or ignored due to system/situational
variations.

One example of providing a guideline may be to encourage users to use an easy to
remember phrase as a seed for creating a password. This may help a user to
adhere to the password policy as well as introduce entropy and avoid common
keyboard-pattern based passwords (which have been effectively compromised and
vulnerable to rainbow table attacks.)

Compliance Requirements
=======================

The US government and regulatory bodies are increasingly focusing on protecting
information security through regulatory compliance. The Federal Trade Commission
leads the way with its enforcement of various information security policies,
laws or regulations, however the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and
Federal Communications Commission (FCC) have also fined companies for alleged
failures to properly secure information and information systems. Additionally,
the SEC requires regulated entities to disclose material risks related to
cybersecurity in their SEC filings and make adequate disclosures in the event of
a breach.

Policy provides the governance that is critical to ensuring that an organization
can achieve information security, from a practical standpoint, as well as with
regard to applicable law or regulation. The challenge of ensuring compliance
really comes from the need to balance access requirements with security controls
to both ensure an effective and enforceable policy, and properly protect assets.
Assessing policies for compliance necessitates a strong understanding of an
organization’s business needs/goals.

Proper governance also requires an understanding of the implications of events.
Lawsuits based on data breaches may easily result if law or regulation is
ignored. When an information system suffers a breach, criminal lawsuits, civil
lawsuits, or other penalties are possible. Litigation often attempts to verify
whether “reasonable” steps were taken in order to protect against the breach or
event.

Both the private and public sector must assure compliance based on all
applicable law or regulation. While the type of industry or public sector
affiliations may determine the specific compliance requirements. Rather than
trying to discuss everything, we will cover an overview of the most common and
wide reaching of these.

Laws vs. Regulations
--------------------

Congress creates laws; however, federal executive departments and administrative
agencies can create regulations. The use of regulations is generally to
implement the authority of laws. Regulations are supplementary or subordinate to
laws but both are enforceable.

Something to think about when considering distinctions between law and
regulation are consequences. Cases that fall under criminal law may result in
incarceration or even the death penalty whereas cases that fall under civil law
or regulatory compliance generally result in fines.

**Criminal Cases –** Requires proving guilt beyond reasonable doubt, which is
increasingly difficult to prove in cyber related crimes

**Civil Cases–** A system of law dealing with private relations between members
of a community and intended to enable an orderly society (matters not
necessarily criminal in nature)

*Drilling Down into Specifics*

While your organization may not be directly responsible for
functions/information governed by a specific act/standard, peripheral contact,
information sharing, processing or connections with applicable organizations may
necessitate your compliance.

*Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002 (FISMA)* - This act assigns
responsibilities that help to strengthen information security systems for
federal agencies. The act also assigns responsibilities to the National
Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and the Office of Management and
Budget to help achieve this goal. FISMA relies on guidance from the NIST series
of documents, specifically NIST 800-53 that requires the creation, review, and
dissemination of a security policy. (Repealed The Computer Security Act of 1987)

**Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (CFAA)-** This act was created after the release
of the film WarGames; it came as a knee-jerk reaction by the Regan
administration to idea of hacking as a matter of national security. The film
stared Mathew Broderick as a young hacker who accidentally broke into a military
supercomputer, nearly starting WWIII. The CFAA has seen numerous amendments
since 1984. The following are a couple of notable cases where CFAA was cited.

-   United States v. Morris 1991 - The Act was amended in 1996, in part, to
    clarify language disputed in the case. The words "knowingly" and
    "intentionally" were added in several places through the act to try to avoid
    further disagreements over the way the legislature could be interpreted and
    applied.

-   United States v. Kane 2011 – The case found that exploiting a software bug
    in a poker machine does not constitute hacking; the machine in question was
    not a “protected computer” under the statute.

Compliance in Cyberspace
------------------------

Compliance should not be a scramble to check the block before an audit, it
should be a part of an ongoing effort to manage risk. Two of the most well-known
compliance requirements concerning information and information systems are the
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) and the Payment Card
Industry Data Security Standard (PCI-DSS). While there are many more regulations
and standards to be aware of, the applicability of such standards or acts is
organizationally specific.

HIPAA - The act applies to health insurers, providers, and claims and processing
agencies. It ensures that any covered entities disclose breaches in security
pertaining to personal information. The act outlines standards for securing
information and providing adequate safeguards from an administrative and
technical perspective. Specifically, Section 4.2 requires the identification of
someone responsible for security and the point of contact for security policy,
implementation, and monitoring.

PCI-DSS - This set of standards provides instructions on maintaining security
policies and providing a secure environment for any entities that accept,
process, and store or transmit credit card information. These technical and
operational requirements are meant to provide some confidence to financial
institutions and vendors that they are operating in a secured environment.

Enforcing Policy
================

Enforcing policies is complex. This is because policies span a variety of
aspects within organizations. Some policies require technical mechanisms to
enforce, others may be a matter of human contact or interactions; enforcement
may also involve personnel outside of the information security or technology
staff. The following are a few examples of how policy enforcement can be done:

Technical Enforcement Examples:
-------------------------------

-   The organization must not allow unencrypted file transfers to take place
    outside of the enterprise; Host based and perimeter firewalls blocks FTP,
    TFTP and other unsecure file transfer protocols. *(Firewall/Filtering
    Policies)*

-   The organization must limit the access of protected information (HIPAA for
    example) to only authorized individuals; User Accounts are assigned to the
    appropriate Groups within the organizations Active Directory. Permission to
    any files, directories, assets, etc where controlled information may reside
    are limited to specified Groups. *(Account/Group Privilege)*

-   The organization must ensure that traffic from a lower security network
    (guest network for example), cannot access, nor traverse areas where
    controlled information resides or traverses. *(Traffic Segmentation)*

Personnel Management:
---------------------

-   Employee Pre-screening

-   Hiring practices

-   Onboarding and termination processes

-   Vendors/Third Party contact

Training:
---------

-   User Awareness Training

-   Information Security Staff Training

-   Vendor Training

Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M)
-------------------------------------

The POA&M tracks both the “plan of action” for correcting deficiencies and
reducing/eliminating vulnerabilities as well as significant “milestones”
occurring throughout the process of implementing controls. POA&Ms can also help
with the

oversight of an organization’s program to include better visibility of gaps or
efficiencies. Monitoring of progress and efforts through a POA&M can be a very
useful tool in both ensuring compliance, as well as identifying potentially
overlooked areas of concern.

Monitoring can include:
-----------------------

**Measurements/Metrics**: Metrics are tools designed to improve performance and
accountability of a security program. Understanding the proper metrics for
success may be highly dependent on the specific organization.

**Continuous Assessment**: Monitors the accreditation of information systems,
analyzes impact of changes or adjustments to security controls, and reports the
security status of the system.

**Configuration Management**: Tracks and implements procedures for approving
changes to systems, helping to identify potential security-related problems.

**Network Monitoring**: Information about the network and user behavior helps
identify areas for improvements or concerns.

**Incident and Event Statistics**: Valuable in determining the effectiveness of
security policies and steering re-evaluation, changes or response to trends.
